# -SI699-Isabel-Healthcare-Disease-Classifier
There are two code files: 

1) 'creating_dataframe_and_baselines.ipynb': Code for data-preprocessing and baselines
2) 'Final_Code_Isabel.ipynb': Code for pseudo labeling model and further optimizations including PCA and the three main classifiers: Random Forest, kNN and Ridge Regression.

Disease speciality classifier using Pseudo labeling
Isabel Healthcare provides an online symptom checker that allows users to input their demographic information and symptoms, then predicts potential diseases. Partnering with Isabel Healthcare, our team was tasked with analyzing the demographics of users that were predicted to have rare diseases or diseases that take years to diagnose. Isabel Healthcare’s goal is to better understand this subset of users and demonstrate the ability of their tool to recognize rare diseases. They hope to better market the symptom checker tool and partner with hospitals and disease support foundations. These partnerships would increase access, awareness, and usage of Isabel Healthcare’s tool, giving users more well-rounded ideas of potential diagnoses based on their conditions.


As an additional task, our team also attempted to build a classifier to predict a user’s disease given their demographic and symptomatic inputs from Isabel Healthcare data. We explored various methods of multi-class classification to build our own predictor. Most of the client’s data was unlabeled, therefore we relied on techniques such as pseudo-labelings to increase the dataset size. We were unable to successfully rebuild a classifier for diseases due to the large number of classes in a very small number of records in the labeled data set. Predicting the specialty of the disease rather than the disease itself yielded better performance, with models such as a Ridge Classifier with cross-validation reaching 74% accuracy in predicting disease specialty. This was an easier classification task as there were only about 20 disease specialties to predict rather than over 300 unique diseases. While not ideal results, the research and work on the classifier portion of this project in addition to the rare disease analysis requested by the client helped us to experiment with real world data and explore how to work around limitations. This experience demonstrates the importance of sufficient labeled data for training models, especially for complex multi-class predictions.
